---
layout: post
title:  "PMT Physics check for chroma and RAT"
date:   2022-09-05 00:00:00 -0400
categories: chroma
---

## Photon propagation within the photocathode material
Phil Jones' Thin Film approximation
model:<https://ora.ox.ac.uk/catalog/uuid:e99b0c4a-2cce-4e0a-9ce1-e0b8de12b264/download_file?file_format=application%2Fpdf&safe_filename=Jones_thesis>
Appendix B 

- RAT does the calculation twice. $n_3$ is set to 1 when entering PC, while $n_1$ is set to 1 when leaving the PC. This
  seemingly circumvents the material thickness calculation, as the photon propagation inside the PE is actually
  simulated.
- Chroma sets the thickness to be uniform along the surface, which is not true for the real tubes. Also, thickness needs
  to be given in nm. Using the value 28nm from the rat db comment.
- Updated the dynode surface.
- mirror surface utilizes the complex model as well. This has been added as a new material called `mirror_sno`. This
  material should be almost completely reflective. Thin film approximation is not proper here. RAT uses fresnel
  equations, but these are not implemented in chroma. Workaround for now is to use a very large thicknessvalue to
  approximate Fresnel transmission.

- Concentrator has a set reflectivity, of which a certain portion (40 percent) diffusively reflects, while the other
  specularly reflects.
- Reflectivity of the concentrator is frequency and angle dependent in RAT. In Chroma it is a single number. Optimizing
  shows this number should be 0.73. Error is minimized to be less than 4%
